HAI 2024-05.01 
What is going on with AI...?

Hihglights from the 2024 AI Index
Created in 2017 - Why is this trustable?
Track trends in AI from different perspective:
economics,
data,
...


Highlight #1
Midjourney improvements 2022-2023 - Text to Video generations

Multimodal AI - Gemini
Audio and Images

Harder benchmarks emerge
Tests of AI capabilities

Human evaluation is in

- Chatbot Arena Leaderboard
- Ranking of what the public like more

Thanks to LLMs, robots have become more flexible.

More technical research in agentic AI

Scientific progress accelerates event further, thanks to AI

Also in medecine
0.1% --> 81% of Missense annotatations

AI beats humans on some tasks, but not on all

Highlight #2
Business respond

Generative AI investement skyrockets

Organizations are moving towards AI.
The business integrataions is going to move faster in 2024

Fortune 500 earningg call rise - ChatGPT effect

Why are businesses care?
McKinsey 2023

AI makes workers more productine and leads to higher quality work

Also in legal we have better quality

Human awareness of faulty AI make the work with AI better. Human in the loop

Highlight #3
Industry is leading AI scene

Same in Foundation models.
LLM trainined on massive amount of data

Why is industry leading the scene?
Why frontier models is expensive

Tranformer architecture - What it is?
Tranform paper 2017

Scaling computation is the costing part.

Also AI talents are migrating to industry

Closed LLMs are outperforming opens
Still true with LLama3?

It looks like closed models are really better in AgentBench

AI developer score low in transparency

What tests are the developers using to evaluate Foundation models? We have a consensus

No consesus on benchmarks for responsible AI

Highlight #4
How are policy makers reacting?

Explosion since 2022

More regulatory agencies turn their attension toward AI

Ai is making people nervous...Therefore policy makers have to do something

AI is already affecting us

Highlight #5
Geopolitical considerations
US is leading
Also in investements
But China is having a major numbers of AI patents as also industrial Robotics using AI


